doc/BuildDetails.md, before:

# Build

## Overview

This is a technical description what happens in our build and how it is organized. This covers mostly the build architecture of Xenko itself.

* [Targets](../Targets) contains the MSBuild target files used by Games
* [sources/common/targets](../sources/common/targets) (generic) and [sources/targets](../sources/targets) (Xenko-specific) contains the MSBuild target files used to build Xenko itself.

## Outputs

We output one folder per platform+runtime combination. Since each graphics platform have mostly common files, the different files are output in graphics API specific subfolders.

Example:
* `Windows`: contains most of the assemblies for the Windows platform
* `Windows\Direct3D11`: contains D3D11-specific assemblies
* `Windows\OpenGL`: contains OpenGL-specific assemblies
* `Android`: contains most of the assemblies for the Android platform
* `Android\OpenGLES`: contains OpenGLES-specific assemblies

## Assembly processor

Assembly processor is run by both Game and Xenko targets.

It performs various transforms to the compiled assemblies:
* Generate [DataSerializer](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Serialization/DataSerializer.cs) serialization code (and merge it back in assembly using IL-Repack)
* Generate [UpdateEngine](../sources/engine/SiliconStudio.Xenko.Engine/Updater/UpdateEngine.cs) code
* Scan for types or attributes with `[ScanAssembly]` to quickly enumerate them without needing `Assembly.GetTypes()`
* Optimize calls to [SiliconStudio.Core.Utilities](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Utilities.cs)
* Automatically call methods tagged with [ModuleInitializer](../sources/common/core/Siliconstudio.Core/ModuleInitializerAttribute.cs)
* Cache lambdas and various other code generation related to [Dispatcher](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Threading/Dispatcher.cs)
* A few other internal tasks

For performance reasons, it is run as a MSBuild Task (avoid reload/JIT-ing). If you wish to make it run the executable directly, set `SiliconStudioAssemblyProcessorDev` to `true`.

## Dependencies

We want an easy mechanism to attach some files to copy alongside a referenced .dll or .exe, including content and native libraries.

As a result, `<SiliconStudioContent>` and `<SiliconStudioNativeLib>` item types were added.

When a project declare them, they will be saved alongside the assembly with extension `.ssdeps`, to instruct referencing projects what needs to be copied.

Also, for the specific case of `<SiliconStudioNativeLib>`, we automatically copy them in appropriate folders and link them if necessary.

Note: we don't apply them transitively yet (project output won't contains the `.ssdeps` file anymore so it is mostly useful to reference from executables/apps directly)

## Native

By adding a reference to `Xenko.Native.targets`, it is easy to build some C/C++ files that will be compiled on all platforms and automatically added to the `.ssdeps` file.

## ExecServer

ExecServer is a mechanism used by some of our tools to avoid JIT-ing every time frequently run code, increasing startup performance. In practice, it is used to run the compiler app.

Internally, it uses [LoaderOptimization.MultiDomain](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.loaderoptimization(v=vs.110).aspx) optimization.

### Limitations

It seems that using those optimization don't work well with shadow copying and [probing privatePath](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/823z9h8w(v=vs.110).aspx). This forces us to copy the `Direct3D11` specific assemblies to the top level `Windows` folder at startup of some tools. This is little bit unfortunate as it seems to disturb the MSBuild assembly searching (happens before `$(AssemblySearchPaths)`). As a result, inside Xenko solution it is necessary to explicitely add `<ProjectReference>` to the graphics specific assemblies otherwise wrong ones might be picked up.

This will require further investigation to avoid this copying at all.

## Asset Compiler

Both Games and Xenko unit tests are running the asset compiler as part of the build process to create assets.

Commit message:

[Build] Automatically set nuget special version using git height and commit ID (count how many commit having same version) -- this applies only to non official packages

doc/BuildDetails.md, after:

﻿# Build

## Overview

This is a technical description what happens in our build and how it is organized. This covers mostly the build architecture of Xenko itself.

* [Targets](../Targets) contains the MSBuild target files used by Games
* [sources/common/targets](../sources/common/targets) (generic) and [sources/targets](../sources/targets) (Xenko-specific) contains the MSBuild target files used to build Xenko itself.

## Outputs

We output one folder per platform+runtime combination. Since each graphics platform have mostly common files, the different files are output in graphics API specific subfolders.

Example:
* `Windows`: contains most of the assemblies for the Windows platform
* `Windows\Direct3D11`: contains D3D11-specific assemblies
* `Windows\OpenGL`: contains OpenGL-specific assemblies
* `Android`: contains most of the assemblies for the Android platform
* `Android\OpenGLES`: contains OpenGLES-specific assemblies

## Versioning

We have 3 places with versions:
- Xenko package version (.xkpkg)
- Assembly version (SharedAssemblyInfo.cs) -- should be kept in sync with Xenko package version (note: package build will report an error if versions are not matching)
- NuGet package version (.nupkg) -- automatically derived from the Xenko package version

During package build, if `SiliconStudioOfficialBuild` is not set to true, NuGet package suffix will be automatically generated with `-beta<commits_count_since_last_version_change>-g<git_hash>`
Also, `AssemblyInformationalVersion` will also contain the same information (or at least the git hash for official builds).

## Assembly processor

Assembly processor is run by both Game and Xenko targets.

It performs various transforms to the compiled assemblies:
* Generate [DataSerializer](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Serialization/DataSerializer.cs) serialization code (and merge it back in assembly using IL-Repack)
* Generate [UpdateEngine](../sources/engine/SiliconStudio.Xenko.Engine/Updater/UpdateEngine.cs) code
* Scan for types or attributes with `[ScanAssembly]` to quickly enumerate them without needing `Assembly.GetTypes()`
* Optimize calls to [SiliconStudio.Core.Utilities](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Utilities.cs)
* Automatically call methods tagged with [ModuleInitializer](../sources/common/core/Siliconstudio.Core/ModuleInitializerAttribute.cs)
* Cache lambdas and various other code generation related to [Dispatcher](../sources/common/core/SiliconStudio.Core/Threading/Dispatcher.cs)
* A few other internal tasks

For performance reasons, it is run as a MSBuild Task (avoid reload/JIT-ing). If you wish to make it run the executable directly, set `SiliconStudioAssemblyProcessorDev` to `true`.

## Dependencies

We want an easy mechanism to attach some files to copy alongside a referenced .dll or .exe, including content and native libraries.

As a result, `<SiliconStudioContent>` and `<SiliconStudioNativeLib>` item types were added.

When a project declare them, they will be saved alongside the assembly with extension `.ssdeps`, to instruct referencing projects what needs to be copied.

Also, for the specific case of `<SiliconStudioNativeLib>`, we automatically copy them in appropriate folders and link them if necessary.

Note: we don't apply them transitively yet (project output won't contains the `.ssdeps` file anymore so it is mostly useful to reference from executables/apps directly)

## Native

By adding a reference to `Xenko.Native.targets`, it is easy to build some C/C++ files that will be compiled on all platforms and automatically added to the `.ssdeps` file.

## ExecServer

ExecServer is a mechanism used by some of our tools to avoid JIT-ing every time frequently run code, increasing startup performance. In practice, it is used to run the compiler app.

Internally, it uses [LoaderOptimization.MultiDomain](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.loaderoptimization(v=vs.110).aspx) optimization.

### Limitations

It seems that using those optimization don't work well with shadow copying and [probing privatePath](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/823z9h8w(v=vs.110).aspx). This forces us to copy the `Direct3D11` specific assemblies to the top level `Windows` folder at startup of some tools. This is little bit unfortunate as it seems to disturb the MSBuild assembly searching (happens before `$(AssemblySearchPaths)`). As a result, inside Xenko solution it is necessary to explicitely add `<ProjectReference>` to the graphics specific assemblies otherwise wrong ones might be picked up.

This will require further investigation to avoid this copying at all.

## Asset Compiler

Both Games and Xenko unit tests are running the asset compiler as part of the build process to create assets.
